we're listening to tornados to try to
increase a warning times and save lives
we have measured a tornado a small
tornado that emitted sounds between like
a tone at 5 to 10 Hertz we assume that
it's producing the sound because the
pressure in the middle of the tornado
drops and then you get these
fluctuations from the variation in
terrain that makes it oscillate and
based on dimensional reasoning you would
say that then you would expect both the
frequency to correlate with the size of
the tornado and the amplitude to
correlate with how low the pressure is
dropping in the core that tornado so
since we can measure this from up to 300
miles away we have the possibility of
from far distances estimating both size
and strength of the tornado
so for each each location you're gonna
want at least three microphones so you
can get a bearing angle of where the
sounds coming from and then what makes
it that tough to get infrasonic
measurements is wind noise will
contaminate your ear measurement so it's
kind of unusual is we have our
microphone out in say a grassy area a
dome over it and then we have a bunch of
garden hoses coming out of it and we
spread out these soaker hoses so they're
porous walls and we we spread them out
and like say an X pattern you do that to
do spacial averaging so that wind noise
that's going over the different
components will cancel out because
they're incoherent while a large
pressure way from a geophysical source
will be coherent over it you have three
of them you do the correlation between
them to get where the signals coming
from
you